---
title: A Report on ELD API Functionality
slug: a-report-on-eld-api-functionality
summary: ""
thumbnail: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/6480a615f30e0173415e8fc9_Mask%20group%20(2).png"
author: francisco-berias
category: 
featured: false
publishedDate: "2023-02-22T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: true
---
<p id="">The transportation industry has seen a significant shift towards the use of electronic logging devices (ELDs) in recent years. With the ability to monitor drivers' duty status and comply with regulations, ELDs have a massive impact on the trucking industry, helping fleets improve fuel efficiency, meet compliance requirements (ELD mandate), and prevent fines.</p><p id="">In this context, ELD API functionality plays a crucial role in collecting and transmitting ELD data to fleet management systems (TMSs), and few would dispute the benefits of ELDs, the importance of ELD API functionality, and how they have revolutionized fleet management.</p><h2 id="">ELD API Functionality and Benefits</h2><p id="">Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs) have played a vital role in the trucking industry since their introduction. Replacing paper logs, ELDs have improved safety and service regulations while helping fleets comply with ELD regulations. ELD providers offer electronic login devices that transmit data to the cloud, where fleet managers can access a driver's duty status and ELD record.</p><p id="">When choosing an ELD provider, technical specifications and data plans are crucial factors to take under consideration, as well as ensuring that accurate hours of service data are being recorded in order to make roadside inspections easier to pass.</p><p id="">Fleet managers are able to use ELDs to monitor driving time and vehicle engine performance and plan for preventative maintenance and fuel usage, helping to prevent costly fines and optimize fleet performance. Harsh braking and idling time can also be monitored and improved with ELDs, which can provide a competitive advantage for motor carriers seeking to improve their CSA scores. Accurate hours of service and engine hours can lead to significant cost savings for companies, while also preventing fatigue-related accidents and improving truck drivers' safety.</p><h2 id="">ELDs: The Ultimate Fleet Management and Vehicle Tracking Device</h2><p id="">ELDs are critical devices used to measure and keep track of vehicle and driving indicators. However, to collect and transmit ELD data, integration — via an Application Programming Interface (API) — with a Transportation Management System (TMS) or Fleet Management System (FMS) is required. Not all ELDs are compatible with every API, and some development efforts are required to connect the two parts.</p><p id="">The use of ELDs was originally promoted by the FMCSA to improve driving safety, limit drivers’ hours of service (HOS), and ensure fair pay. However, ELDs offer additional advantages beyond improving safety. Aside from replacing paper logs, connecting ELDs to TMSs or FMSs allows carriers to gather important information that helps them make more efficient decisions to improve fleet performance.</p><p id="">Carriers have access to a range of valuable metrics, including real-time location, speeding and braking, driver ID, and hours of service. These metrics enable them to optimize routing, minimize fuel consumption and spending, reduce costs and the carbon footprint, enhance visibility into the fleet and cargo, and achieve various other operational improvements.</p><h2 id="">Understanding ELD API Functionality&nbsp;</h2><p id="">API Functionality refers to the set of protocols, routines, and tools for building software and applications. It is the method used by software components to communicate with each other, and is the interface between different software systems.&nbsp;</p><p id="">API functionality enables an electronic logging device to connect and exchange data with software systems like TMSs or FMSs, as well as other third-party applications. The API sends and receives data between the ELDS and other software. This data can include vehicle telematics data, driver information and hours of service, duty status, driving time and miles driven, a vehicle's engine status and performance metrics, and more. Using this method, motor carriers or freight tech companies can seamlessly ELD data into their workflows to make better data-driven decisions.&nbsp;</p><p id="">Of course, the use of this technology is thought to provide easier access to key information for the transportation industry, but in order to get that flow of data running smoothly, ELDs have to be chosen carefully to ensure they have the proper API functionality for your business's wants and needs.</p><h2 id="">What is ELD API Functionality and why is it important?</h2><p id="">ELD API functionality is the ability of an electronic logging device to communicate with other software systems through an application programming interface (API). This allows ELD data to be integrated seamlessly into a carrier's transportation management system (TMS) or fleet management system (FMS), as well as other third-party applications.</p><p id="">The importance of ELD API functionality lies in its ability to unlock the full potential of ELD data, allowing carriers to make data-driven decisions to optimize their operations and improve their bottom line.</p><h2 id="">A Consumer Report on ELD API Functionality</h2><p id="">There are different types of ELD API functionality available, each with its own significance. Basic ELD API functionality allows for the transfer of HOS data and limited vehicle data. Advanced ELD API functionality, on the other hand, offers real-time tracking, driver performance metrics, hours of service, vehicle engine and diagnostics, driving time, duty status, and more. The choice of ELD API functionality depends on the specific needs of each carrier and the complexity of their operations.</p><p id="">We've included an in-depth consumer report on the different types of ELD API functionality and their respective benefits in order for you to choose the best ELD provider for your business. We will also discuss the most popular ELDs on the market and their API functionality.</p><h2 id="">Overview of some ELDs and their API functionality</h2><p id="">There are many ELDs available on the market, each with its own API functionality:</p><ul id=""><li>KeepTruckin: KeepTruckin offers basic and advanced ELD API functionality, including real-time location tracking, driver performance metrics, vehicle diagnostics, and more.</li><li>Omnitracs: Omnitracs offers advanced ELD API functionality, including real-time tracking, driver performance metrics, and vehicle diagnostics. </li><li>Samsara: Samsara offers both basic and advanced ELD API functionality, including real-time tracking, driver performance metrics, vehicle diagnostics, and more. </li><li>Geotab: Offers ELDs with IOX expandability, providing fleets with additional sensors and telematics capabilities, along with an open API that supports third-party app integrations.</li><li>Verizon Connect: Provides ELDs with live map updates and vehicle diagnostics, along with an API that supports integration with a variety of back-office systems.</li><li>BigRoad: Offers affordable ELDs with real-time alerts and messaging, along with an API that enables data exchange with various TMS, FMS, and dispatch systems.</li><li>Fleet Complete: Provides ELDs with advanced reporting and analytics, as well as an open API that allows for integration with TMS, FMS, and other fleet management systems.</li></ul><h2 id="">Choosing the Best ELD with the Right API Functionality</h2><p id="">In this section, we will provide guidance on how to choose the right ELD based on API functionality. We will discuss the factors to consider when choosing an ELD with the right API functionality for your organization, including compatibility with your TMS to meet technical specifications, ease of use to smoothen the adoption process, and scalability to grow the company.</p><h2 id="">Factors to consider when choosing an ELD with the right API functionality</h2><p id="">Choosing the best ELD with the right API functionality requires careful consideration of the following factors:</p><ul id=""><li>Compatibility with your TMS: It's important to choose an ELD that is compatible with your TMS or FMS to ensure seamless integration and data transfer.</li><li>Ease of use: The ELD should be user-friendly and easy to navigate, with intuitive features and a straightforward interface.</li><li>Scalability: The ELD should be able to scale with your operations as your business grows, without requiring significant additional investment.</li></ul><h2 id=""><strong id="">How does TruckerCloud help?</strong></h2><p id="">TruckerCloud's API is also cloud-based, enabling fleet managers to access the data from anywhere, on any device, including desktop computers or mobile devices.TruckerCloud's seamless integration solution makes it the top choice for integrating ELDs with TMSs. With instant carrier onboarding technology, TruckerCloud eliminates delays and ensures a quick setup process.</p><p id="">Thanks to its open API, TruckerCloud simplifies and accelerates integrations, allowing for a seamless flow of data between ELDs and TMSs. Additionally, TruckerCloud empowers businesses to leverage the collected data, providing valuable insights to optimize trucking operations and other activities supporting transportation like insurance and factoring. Advanced analytics are key to enabling data-driven decision-making for enhanced efficiency.</p><h2 id="">Conclusion</h2><p id="">In conclusion, ELD API functionality is an essential consideration when choosing an ELD for your fleet. The right ELD API functionality can help you optimize your operations, improve your bottom line, and maintain ELD compliance. By considering factors such as compatibility, ease of use, scalability, and cost, you can choose the right ELD with the right API functionality for your business needs.</p><p id="">Additionally, it's important to note that there are different types of API functionality available, and each offers its own set of benefits. It is crucial to do your research and compare the different ELDs and their API functionality before making a decision.</p><p id="">Overall, investing in the right ELD with the right API functionality can have a huge impact on your fleet's efficiency, safety, and compliance. It's important to take the time to carefully evaluate your options and choose an ELD that meets your specific business needs whether it's improving your fleet's performance, reducing costs, or enhancing your overall operations.<br></p><p id="">‍</p>