---
title: "Cybersecurity Alert: Estes Express Hit by Cyberattack - Lessons for the Logistics Industry"
slug: cybersecurity-alert-estes-express-hit-by-cyberattack-lessons-for-the-logistics-industry
summary: Estes cyberattack highlights rising threats in logistics. See how TruckerCloud and Red Sentry work together to stay secure.
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/653be1e702a0d530f59b9561_TC%20Blog%20Thumnail%20(1).jpg"
author: francisco-berias
category: press-releases
featured: false
publishedDate: "2023-10-27T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: false
---
<h3 id=""><strong id="">Estes Express Faces Cyberattack: Navigating Disruption in the LTL Market</strong></h3><p id="">In an unfortunate turn of events, Estes Express, a prominent Richmond-based LTL carrier, confirmed that it fell <a id="" href="https://www.freightwaves.com/news/estes-express-confirms-cyberattack">victim to a cyberattack</a>. While the specifics of the attack remain undisclosed, the impact has been felt across the company's systems. Despite this, Estes assured its customers that operations have continued as usual, with terminals and drivers diligently handling pickups and deliveries.</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">The Silence Surrounding the Attack</strong></h3><p id="">Details about the attack, such as its origin or the affected areas within the company, have not been divulged. Even attempts to contact Estes via phone calls were met with automated messages and accessing their website proved futile, indicating the severity of the situation.</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">The Crucial Role of Cybersecurity in Modern Business</strong></h3><p id="">This incident serves as a stark reminder of the critical importance of robust cybersecurity measures in today’s digital landscape. Cyberattacks can cripple even the most robust organizations, disrupting operations and causing financial losses.&nbsp;</p><p id="">Businesses, regardless of size, must prioritize and invest in cybersecurity to safeguard their digital assets, customer data, and overall reputation. Implementing proactive security protocols, conducting regular vulnerability assessments, and fostering a cybersecurity-aware culture among employees are vital steps in fortifying a company’s defenses.</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">TruckerCloud's Vigilance: Safeguarding Operations Through RedSentry</strong></h3><p id="">In the face of rising cyber threats, TruckerCloud remains steadfast in its commitment to ensuring the security of its platform and, by extension, its clients. Partnering with RedSentry, a leading cybersecurity solutions provider, TruckerCloud employs state-of-the-art penetration testing (pentests) and Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) scanning.&nbsp;</p><p id="">These robust measures allow TruckerCloud to proactively monitor vulnerabilities within its systems. RedSentry’s pentests simulate real-world cyberattacks, revealing potential weaknesses that could be exploited. Combined with CVE scanning, which identifies known vulnerabilities, TruckerCloud swiftly addresses any security gaps, ensuring airtight protection.</p><p id="">By investing in cutting-edge cybersecurity technologies, TruckerCloud not only protects its platform but also upholds the trust and confidence of its users, collaborating in enhancing the whole ecosystem’s security posture.&nbsp;</p><p id="">As the logistics industry faces evolving challenges, it's crucial for businesses to prioritize cybersecurity. Learn more about safeguarding your operations against cyber threats with <a id="" href="https://www.redsentry.com/blogs">Red Sentry’s blogs</a>.&nbsp;</p>