---
title: FactorCloud Announces Integration with TruckerCloud
slug: factorcloud-announces-integration-with-truckercloud
summary: FactorCloud factoring software today announced that it has integrated TruckerCloud’s freight visibility data into its platform. ELD-based data pinpointing trucks’ exact location is now available within FactorCloud. Prior to purchasing an invoice from a transportation client, FactorCloud customers can now verify that a load was picked up and delivered at the correct locations and specified timeframes.
thumbnail: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/62b087ff20d1f20ee886e211_TC-integration-into-FC-screenshot.png"
author: rule-1-admin
category: 
featured: false
publishedDate: "2021-03-30T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: true
---
<p id=""><em id="">Real-time freight visibility data allows factoring companies to automatically verify truck locations prior to purchasing invoices</em></p><p id="">Atlanta, GA (March 30, 2021) - FactorCloud factoring software today announced that it has integrated TruckerCloud’s freight visibility data into its platform. ELD-based data pinpointing trucks’ exact location is now available within FactorCloud. This allows factoring companies to view accurate location data, either in real time or retroactively. Prior to purchasing an invoice from a transportation client, FactorCloud customers can now verify that a load was picked up and delivered at the correct locations and specified timeframes.&nbsp;</p><p id="">“Today, factors spend a great deal of time on the phone, doing verifications manually. It takes so much time that they typically are not able to verify as many deals as they’d like, leaving them open to fraud or loss. Integrating TruckerCloud’s data into FactorCloud means that our customers can quickly and easily verify every load for carriers within the TruckerCloud network,” states Nick Fraunfelder, CEO for FactorCloud. “This new functionality will save factoring companies time and money, as well as reducing risk.”</p><p id="">“We’re excited to be partnering with FactorCloud,” says Sam Powers, CEO of TruckerCloud. “Since our truck location data is ELD-based, it’s extremely accurate and reliable. Factors can now confidently verify loads without conducting endless phone calls. And debtors will appreciate not being interrupted by multiple verification calls.”</p><p id="">Factoring companies have flexibility to decide which loads they want to track, since the system is “pay as you go.” Some factoring companies choose to automatically verify all loads, while others only check on higher value transactions or those from newer customers.</p><h2 id=""><strong id="">About FactorCloud</strong></h2><p id="">FactorCloud is a complete invoice factoring platform allowing growing factoring companies to increase efficiencies, scale operations, and lower risk. Highly configurable and permissions-based, FactorCloud allows factors to meet the changing needs of the market while improving the performance of their portfolio. And now transportation factors can easily verify loads with the touch of a button. Grow revenue. Reduce risk. For more information, visit &nbsp;<a id="" href="http://www.factorcloud.com">www.factorcloud.com</a>&nbsp;</p><h2 id=""><strong id="">About TruckerCloud</strong></h2><p id="">TruckerCloud allows factors to eliminate verification calls, saving time and money. The company is a pioneer in trucking solutions and supply chain management. A technology innovator, TruckerCloud’s cloud-based platform provides unprecedented, real-time freight visibility to factors, shippers, carriers, brokers, and others in the trucking and transportation industries using a flexible ELD- and API-based visibility gateway. The patent-pending digital, permission-based carrier onboarding capability makes it simple to add new carriers and brokers. The system is already integrated with the most popular ELDs in the market. &nbsp;For more information, visit <a href="https://www.truckercloud.com">www.truckercloud.com</a>.&nbsp;</p><p id="">Learn more about <a id="" href="https://truckercloud.com/post/what-is-an-eld-and-what-is-eld-data-used-for">ELDs and what ELD data</a> is used for here.</p>