---
title: IntelliTrans and TruckerCloud Freight Visibility Software Partner
slug: intellitrans-and-truckercloud-freight-visibility-software-partner
summary: IntelliTrans and TruckerCloud today announced the availability of their joint platform solution, which enables IntelliTrans customers to increase their unprecedented, real-time visibility into their entire supply chain.
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/62b08989d6ceac317eb555de_intellitrans-joint-updated.jpg"
author: rule-1-admin
category: 
featured: false
publishedDate: "2020-04-10T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: true
---
<p id="">Atlanta, GA (April 10, 2020) - IntelliTrans and TruckerCloud today announced the availability of their joint platform solution, which enables IntelliTrans customers to increase their unprecedented, real-time visibility into their entire supply chain.</p><p id="">IntelliTrans’ SaaS-based Control Tower empowers organizations to be nimble and efficient by providing global supply chain transparency. TruckerCloud’s vendor-and technology-agnostic, ELD-based visibility gateway comes with proprietary permission-based onboarding capabilities. The cloud-based integration platform provides real-time freight visibility to the supply chain industry with a focus on direct carrier and 3PL data.</p><p id="">This integration provides IntelliTrans and its customers an additional and highly valuable source of data to its existing multi-modal shipment and asset management solutions. By leveraging TruckerCloud’s unique, permission-based solution, IntelliTrans can provide shippers with the visibility they need throughout their supply chain while ensuring that carriers and 3PLs can be confident that their data is shared only with those that have a need-to-know.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p id="">“Combining TruckerCloud’s on-boarding capabilities and ELD integration technology with IntelliTrans expertise in ensuring complete, timely, and accurate data will generate significant benefits for our joint customers,” said Ken Sherman, President of IntelliTrans. “Without that visibility, it is very challenging to drive cost out as well as improve the customer experience for our customers and their customers. The integration with TruckerCloud provides IntelliTrans with a differentiated ability to drive these benefits.”</p><p id="">“We’re pleased to be partnering with IntelliTrans,” said Asir Justifus, Founder of TruckerCloud. “Customers of IntelliTrans who are using Control Tower capabilities can accurately and consistently view the location of their trucks. This helps to reduce check calls by up to 75% and decrease charges related to early or late arrivals. Optimizing the entire global supply chain network where IntelliTrans customers operate with visibility into ground transportation is the key.”</p><h2 id="">About IntelliTrans</h2><p id="">IntelliTrans, a&nbsp;<a id="" href="http://www.ropertech.com/application-software" target="_blank">Roper Technologies</a>&nbsp;company, has provided unified and proactive solutions to manage complex supply chain needs for over 28 years.<strong id=""> </strong>The IntelliTrans Global Visibility Platform℠ includes multi-modal command and control features that give unprecedented visibility into your fleet and non-fleet equipment to proactively manage your shipments from origin to destination, with a focus on exceptions and enhancing your customer experience. Whether you ship hundreds or thousands of loads a month, lowering distribution costs helps improve your bottom line. IntelliTrans does just that by reducing labor-intensive, time-consuming and error-prone business processes. From shipment visibility to invoice auditing and analytics, you have everything you need whenever &amp; wherever you need it.</p><h2 id="">About TruckerCloud</h2><p id="">TruckerCloud is a pioneer in trucking solutions and supply chain management. A technology innovator, TruckerCloud’s cloud-based freight visibility platform provides an unprecedented, real time visibility solution to shippers, carriers, brokers, and others in the trucking and transportation industries using a flexible ELD- and API-based visibility gateway. The patent-pending digital, permission-based carrier onboarding capability makes it simple to add new carriers and brokers. The system is already integrated with the ELDs used by 80% of carriers in the market. TruckerCloud, formerly Tranzlogix, is headquartered in Atlanta, GA. For more information, please visit<a href="http://www.truckercloud.com">www.truckercloud.com</a></p>