---
title: "ISC Transportation’s New TruckerCloud Partnership Helps Trucking Clients Stay Safer—and Save - ISC: Integrated Specialty Coverages"
slug: isc-transportations-new-truckercloud-partnership-helps-trucking-clients-stay-safer--and-save
summary: In today’s competitive trucking insurance market, motor carriers are under more pressure than ever to improve safety and reduce claims to keep premiums in check. That’s why ISC Transportation has launched an exciting new partnership with TruckerCloud, bringing advanced telematics solutions to our trucking customers and distribution partners.
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/68546fd80092ba1cfa3ada00_Partnership.jpg"
author: multiple-authors
category: partner-announcements
featured: false
publishedDate: "2025-06-17T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: false
---
<h4 id="">Why Telematics Matters</h4><p id="">Telematics has quickly become a must-have tool for modern trucking operations by collecting real-time data to present opportunities, including risk management and automation of manual tasks:</p><ul id=""><li id="">Benchmark performance against peer motor carriers</li><li id="">Reduce delivery disruptions</li><li id="">Maintain customer goodwill</li><li id="">Identify opportunities to coach driving behavior to avoid undesirable outcomes</li><li id="">Improve FMCSA compliance</li><li id="">Lower frequency and severity of claims</li><li id="">Immediate first notice of loss (FNOL) reporting to minimize claims exposure</li><li id="">Reduce loss experience and insurance premium costs over time</li><li id="">Automate manual tasks to track and verify vehicles, mileage, and operational costs</li></ul><h4 id="">A Competitive Edge for Motor Carriers</h4><p id="">Our partnership with TruckerCloud is about empowering our customers to take control of their risk and their insurance costs. Our customers can gamify their insurance premium spend and gain real control over their risk management costs and exposures.</p><p id="">TruckerCloud’s unique ability to integrate with over 100 providers and deliver detailed behavioral insights puts insureds in a position to maximize long-term business sustainability by integrating directly with the equipment already in the tractors.</p><p id="">There’s no need for new hardware or complicated onboarding. &nbsp;In most cases, a motor carrier can get set up in just a few minutes, with white-glove support available by chat or phone.</p><p id="">Once connected, motor carriers gain access to powerful insights that will protect their reputation, compliance, and profitability.</p><h4 id="">A Competitive Edge for Distribution Partners</h4><p id="">Telematics has become table stakes in the trucking insurance industry. &nbsp;Motor carriers who fail to adopt telematics will eventually be replaced by shippers and freight brokers with those that do.</p><p id="">For our distribution network, our partnership with TruckerCloud creates a powerful opportunity for your agency to add value, strengthen relationships, and differentiate your product offerings. You’re not just selling a policy—you’re delivering access to a cutting-edge safety and risk management tool that can help your clients lower their total cost of risk and stay competitive in a challenging market.</p><p id="">Most importantly, <strong id="">ISC is subsidizing the full cost of TruckerCloud for our insureds</strong>, so your clients can tap into this technology at no extra charge.</p><p>‍</p>