---
title: Northland Telematics Offer
slug: northland-telematics-offer
summary: ""
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/68546bcaaf1a91379a4a4453_north.jpg"
author: multiple-authors
category: press-releases
featured: false
publishedDate: "2025-06-19T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: false
---
<h4 id="">We have a special offer for our trucking customers to help improve safety and efficiency by leveraging the evolution of data analytics.</h4><p id="">Northland believes telematics is an indispensable tool that provides real-time drive performance data through wireless transmission, to increase trucking safety while reducing costs. Our leading telematics partners – Azuga, Motive, Netradyne and Samsara – deliver a full range of services to our trucking customers, focusing on accident prevention and driver performance.</p><h4 id="">Two great offers:</h4><ul><li><strong>Save up to $300 annually (per enrolled vehicle)*</strong><br><em>Bring telematics to your fleet and save on standard device and subscription fees.</em><br>*Currently eligible in all states, except: AK, AL, CA, FL, GA, HI, IN, ME, MI, MN, NY, ND, OH, OK, LA, PA, SC and WA. Customers with a subsidy will receive a monthly subsidy on the purchase of vendor device and subscription fees equal to the lesser of: (i) 50 percent (50%) of the vendor’s standard device and subscription fees per enrolled vehicle, or (ii) $25 per enrolled vehicle.</li></ul><ul><li><strong>10% savings on annual premium*</strong><br><em>Bring telematics to your fleet and save on your Northland insurance premium. Offer available at policy inception and renewal anniversary.</em><br>* Currently available only in IN, MI, MN and OH. How it works: Before enrollment, you will be asked to review and sign an agreement with Northland authorizing Northland to receive and use your data as outlined in the agreement.</li></ul><h4 id="">Northland believes telematics is an indispensable tool that provides real-time drive performance data through wireless transmission, to increase trucking safety while reducing cost.</h4><p id="">Our leading telematics partners - Azuga, Motive, Netradyne and Samsara - deliver a full range of services to our trucking customers, focusing on accident prevention and driver performance.<br><br><br></p><h2 id=""><strong><em>Frequently asked questions</em></strong></h2><h3 id="">Program details</h3><h4 id="">What is the Northland Telematics program?</h4><p id="">Northland is excited to have the opportunity to support the use of telematic devices and cameras in our insured fleets. Telematic devices are important for truck fleet safety. The Northland telematics program has two different offerings – depending on the primary risk state. You would receive either a device subsidy or a policy discount in exchange for agreeing to share your telematic data with Northland.<br><br></p><h4 id="">What is the difference between the two offerings?</h4><p id="">The subsidy program is available in all Northland states, excluding CA, FL, GA, IN, ME, MI, MN, NY, ND, OH, OK, PA, SC and WA. Northland pays a percentage of your device bill directly to the vendor.</p><p id="">The discount program is available in IN, MI, MN and OH. Provide proof of enrollment to your agent for a discount on your Northland policy.</p><p id="">Each program is available only in the specified states. You do not have the option to pick which program you would like to enroll in. </p><h4 id=""><br>Who is eligible for the program?</h4><p id="">All new and existing customers with a Northland policy that includes Primary Auto Liability are eligible. The program is for Class 7 or 8 Heavy/Extra Heavy Trucks and tractors. Light/Medium Trucks, including Hotshots, are excluded from participation.</p><h4 id=""><br>What products are included in the program?</h4><p id="">The program includes eligible telematic devices and cameras from vendor partners. Please refer to the individual vendor information for specific availability.</p><h4 id=""><br>Do I need to have devices installed on all units to be eligible for the program?</h4><p id=""><strong id="">For the discount program:</strong></p><ul id=""><li id="">On accounts with 1-10 power units, all units must have the telematic devices and/or cameras installed to be eligible.</li><li id="">On accounts with 11+ power units, at least 75% of all units must have the telematic devices and/or cameras installed to be eligible.</li></ul><p id=""><strong id="">For the subsidy program:</strong></p><ul id=""><li id="">Not all units are required to have devices installed. Subsidy is paid per individual unit.</li></ul><h4 id="">I want to participate. How do I share my data with Northland?</h4><p id="">Northland has partnered with TruckerCloud, a best in class partner, to facilitate your enrollment and authorization to share your data with Northland.</p><h4 id="">What is the collected data used for?</h4><p id="">Before enrollment, you will be asked to review and sign an agreement with Northland authorizing Northland to receive and use your data as outlined in the agreement. As an industry insurance leader, Northland is continuing to research technology and data to enhance future product and service offerings.</p><h4 id="">How long is the program available?</h4><p id="">The pilot will run for a minimum of 12 months. Once you have enrolled, you will receive the premium discount or device subsidy for 12 months. If you are no longer a Northland insured or cease providing Telematics data, you are no longer eligible for the programs.</p><h4 id="">How long do I have to install device?</h4><p id="">Any questions surrounding when the device will be shipped/received should be directed to the individual vendors. You should install the device within 30 days of receipt. Northland will be confirming that data is being received for all actively enrolled customers on a regular basis.</p>