---
title: One Network Enterprises and TruckerCloud Unveil New Joint Solution to Expand Real-Time Transportation Visibility Across the Supply Chain
slug: one-network-enterprises-and-truckercloud-unveil-new-joint-solution-to-expand-real-time-transportation-visibility-across-the-supply-chain
summary: One Network Enterprises, a global provider of multi-party business networks for autonomous supply chain management, and TruckerCloud, a pioneer in trucking solutions and supply chain management, today announced the availability of a new joint TMS platform solution which enables One Network customers to gain unprecedented real-time visibility into their entire supply chain.
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/62b08883d6ceacfb49b55073_one-network-enterprises.jpg"
author: multiple-authors
category: partner-announcements
featured: false
publishedDate: "2020-06-09T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: false
---
<p><em>Strategic partnership enables higher service levels with more accurate ETAs and faster response when delays occur</em></p><p><strong>Dallas TX, June 9, 2020 -- </strong><a href="https://go.onenetwork.com/pr-truckercloud-one" target="_blank">One Network Enterprises</a>, a global provider of multi-party business networks for autonomous supply chain management, and <a href="https://truckercloud.com/">TruckerCloud</a>, a pioneer in trucking solutions and supply chain management, today announced the availability of a new joint TMS platform solution which enables One Network customers to gain unprecedented real-time visibility into their entire supply chain. With this joint solution, customers can access continuous status updates at every point in the transportation journey. This opens up opportunities that were not possible before to compute highly accurate ETAs in real-time, predict delays in delivery, and optimize the response. With this information, movements can be more rapidly re-routed in transit to reduce the impacts on customers and maintain high service levels.</p><p>“Customers of One Network who are using Supply Chain Control Tower capabilities can accurately and consistently view the location of their trucks, which helps to reduce check calls by up to 75 percent and decrease charges related to early or late arrivals,” said Asir Justifus, Founder of TruckerCloud. “We are thrilled to be partnering with One Network in optimizing the entire global supply chain network so customers can operate with greater visibility into ground transportation, and respond in real-time to be more successful.”</p><p>One Network offers a complete solution for autonomous supply chain management from inbound supply to outbound order fulfillment and logistics, including transportation management system (TMS) solutions and dock scheduling. TruckerCloud’s vendor- and device-agnostic, ELD-based visibility gateway comes with permissions-based onboarding capabilities. The cloud-based integration platform provides real-time freight visibility to the supply chain industry with a focus on truck data.</p><p>“TruckerCloud’s real-time visibility helps customers derive enormous value when combined with One Network’s NEO intelligent agents for predictive ETA’s and optimal decision making,” said Johann van der Westhuizen, VP Strategic Business Development at One Network Enterprises. “More than just transportation, our joint solution helps companies identify the impact on orders and customers. Beyond vehicle or container info, our solution provides actual order and item-level details, so unlike basic tracking solutions, companies can fully understand the true impact of delays on customers and the business.”</p><h2><strong>About One Network Enterprises</strong></h2><p>One Network is the intelligent business platform for autonomous supply chain management. Powered by NEO, One Network’s machine learning and intelligent agent technology, this multi-party digital platform delivers rapid results at a fraction of the cost of legacy solutions. The platform includes modular, adaptable industry solutions for multi-party business that help companies lower costs, improve service levels, and run more efficiently, with less waste. One Network offers a PaaS solution and developer tools that allow organizations to design, build, and run multi-party applications. Leading global organizations have joined One Network, helping to transform industries like Retail, Food Service, Consumer Goods, Automotive, Healthcare, Public Sector, Defense, and Logistics. Headquartered in Dallas, One Network also has offices in Japan, Europe, and India. For more information, please visit <a href="https://go.onenetwork.com/pr-truckercloud-one" target="_blank">www.onenetwork.com</a>.</p><h2><strong>About TruckerCloud</strong></h2><p>TruckerCloud is a pioneer in trucking solutions and supply chain management. A technology innovator, TruckerCloud’s cloud-based platform provides unprecedented, real-time freight visibility to shippers, carriers, brokers, and others in the trucking and transportation industries using a flexible ELD- and API-based visibility gateway. The patent-pending digital, permission-based carrier onboarding capability makes it simple to add new carriers and brokers. The system is already integrated with the ELDs used by 80% of carriers in the market. TruckerCloud, formerly Tranzlogix, is headquartered in Atlanta, GA. For more information, please visit <a href="http://www.truckercloud.com">www.truckercloud.com</a>.</p>