---
title: Roadway Freight Tracking Software Integrates with Trimble’s PeopleNet & PC*MILER
slug: roadway-freight-tracking-software-integrates-with-trimbles-peoplenet-pcmiler
summary: TruckerCloud announced today that its freight visibility software is fully integrated with two Trimble companies, PeopleNet and PC*MILER.
thumbnail: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/62b08b454bde0ea8a767f60e_pcmiler-well.png"
author: rule-1-admin
category: 
featured: false
publishedDate: "2019-07-15T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: true
---
<p>Atlanta, GA (July 15, 2019) - TruckerCloud announced today that its freight visibility software is fully integrated with two Trimble companies, PeopleNet and PC*MILER.</p><p>PeopleNet is a leading provider of integrated onboard computing and mobile communications systems for fleet management in North America. PeopleNet provides fleets with software and hardware solutions that help manage regulatory compliance, fuel costs, driver safety and customer visibility. PeopleNet is a key step in Trimble's strategy for addressing the complex regulatory and operational demands of enterprise companies in the T&amp;L market. In combination with other recent initiatives, including the acquisitions of Punch Telematix and Tata Automotive Mobility Technologies (TMT), Trimble now offers a portfolio of proven solutions to a growing international customer base.</p><p>PC*MILER (aka Trimble MAPS) is dedicated to transforming journeys through innovative routing, scheduling, visualization and navigation solutions. Rooted by map data and map-centric technology specifically designed for commercial vehicles, its development platform and trusted products are made for a broad range of industries, workforces and fleets of all sizes.</p><p>“Our integrations with Trimble companies PeopleNet and PC*MILER will allow their customers to view more comprehensive freight visibility data within their platform of choice with the flexibility they need,” said Asir Justifus, CEO of Tranzlogix. “Our existing customers have expressed appreciation as they enjoy greater accuracy, as well as the ability to view all their data in one interface during planning and dispatch activities.”</p><h2>About Trimble</h2><p>Trimble is transforming the way the world works by delivering products and services that connect the physical and digital worlds. Core technologies in positioning, modeling, connectivity and data analytics enable customers to improve productivity, quality, safety, and sustainability. From purpose-built products to enterprise lifecycle solutions, Trimble software, hardware, and services are transforming industries such as agriculture, construction, geospatial and transportation. For more information about Trimble (NASDAQ: TRMB), visit: <a href="http://www.trimble.com/" target="_blank">www.trimble.com</a>.&nbsp;</p>