---
title: TruckerCloud Named to InsurTech100 List by FinTech Global
slug: truckercloud-named-to-insurtech100-list-by-fintech-global
summary: TruckerCloud earns a spot on the 2024 InsurTech100 list for revolutionizing commercial auto insurance with turnkey telematics solutions and actuary-approved risk metrics.
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/674480d08f587c8fac8421f8_TruckerCloud%20Named%20to%20InsurTech100%20List%20by%20FinTech%20Global.jpg"
author: rule-1-admin
category: press-releases
featured: false
publishedDate: "2024-10-09T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: false
---
<p id="">ATLANTA, Oct. 9, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Specialist research firm FinTech Global has released the latest edition of its influential InsurTech100 list, highlighting the leading innovators developing solutions to the critical challenges facing the insurance sector over the coming years.</p><p id="">TruckerCloud's inclusion highlights its significant contributions to the commercial auto insurance space, particularly through innovations in telematics-based insurance programs. Traditionally, implementing such programs required extensive time and resources, involving years of technical integration, data science research, and ongoing maintenance. However, TruckerCloud has simplified this process, offering insurers a turnkey solution that allows them to quickly launch telematics-based programs.</p><p id="">In addition to streamlining the operations of telematics programs, TruckerCloud has developed actuary-approved risk intelligence metrics. By providing deeper insights into driving behavior, fleet composition, and geographical exposure, TruckerCloud enables more accurate risk analysis and claims adjudication. TruckerCloud has taken the industry vertical by storm, winning the business of more than two dozen of the largest and most successful insurance carriers and MGAs in commercial auto.</p><p id="">TruckerCloud CEO Spencer Mitchell said the following with regards to his company's inclusion in the prestigious list: <em id="">"Being recognized by the InsurTech100 is validation of our commitment to transforming the commercial auto insurance space by making telematics programs more accessible and impactful for insurers. We're excited to continue driving innovation, streamlining processes, and empowering insurers to make data-driven decisions that improve risk management and policy administration."</em></p><p id="">To compile the list, a panel of seasoned analysts and industry veterans meticulously reviewed over 2,100 nominations presented by FinTech Global. Each application was assessed on its ability to leverage technology, to either tackle a significant industry obstacle, or enhance efficiency across the insurance value chain, with only the most innovative and impactful companies making the final cut.</p><p id="">FinTech Global CEO Richard Sachar commented: <em id="">"As industry leaders refine their technology strategies, these companies are playing a pivotal role in shaping the future of insurance. The solutions they offer—ranging from artificial intelligence and machine learning to telematics—are changing the game across the sector."</em></p><p id="">A full list of the InsurTech100 for 2024 and detailed information about each company is available to download for free at <a id="" href="https://c212.net/c/link/?t=0&l=en&o=4273357-1&h=4047658431&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.theinsurtech100.com%2F&a=www.TheInsurTech100.com" target="_blank"><strong id="">www.TheInsurTech100.com</strong></a>.</p><p id="">Media Contact:<br>Reed Peets<br>770-230-1449<br><a id="" href="mailto:384456@email4pr.com"><strong id="">384456@email4pr.com</strong></a></p>