---
title: TruckerCloud Freight Tracking Software on APICS Atlanta Board
slug: truckercloud-founder-chairman-joins-apics-atlanta-board-of-directors
summary: TruckerCloud announced today that its Founder and Chairman, Asir Justifus, has joined the Board of Directors of the Atlanta chapter of APICS (American Production and Inventory Control Society). He will serve as Vice President of Membership.
thumbnail: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/6298f7aa3e05d46567a014db/62b08a152d3c234154ee6231_apics-atlanta.jpg"
author: rule-1-admin
category: 
featured: false
publishedDate: "2020-01-15T00:00:00.000Z"
draft: true
---
<p>Atlanta, GA (January 15, 2020) – TruckerCloud announced today that its Founder and Chairman, Asir Justifus, has joined the Board of Directors of the Atlanta chapter of APICS (American Production and Inventory Control Society). He will serve as Vice President of Membership.</p><p>“I’m pleased to bring TruckerCloud’s resources around mentoring and training emerging workforces in supply chain and logistics to APICS Atlanta,” said Asir Justifus, Founder of TruckerCloud. “The chapter’s mission is to educate members and non-members in supply chain and operations management, including production, inventory, materials management, purchasing, and logistics. With our team’s deep history in the transportation industry, we felt like it was a natural fit.”</p><h2>About APICS Atlanta</h2><p>APICS Atlanta Chapter is a partner with APICS, a not-for-profit international educational organization and the premier association for supply chain management. APICS is the leading provider of research, education and certification programs that elevate supply chain excellence, innovation and resilience. The APICS Certified in Production and Inventory Management (CPIM); APICS Certified Supply Chain Professional (CSCP); APICS Certified in Logistics, Transportation and Distribution (CLTD); and APICS Supply Chain Operations Reference-Professional (SCOR-P) designations set the industry standard. With more than 45,000 members and approximately 300 channel partners, APICS is transforming the way people do business, drive growth and reach global customers.<br>​<br>APICS Atlanta Chapter supports members across the Southeast. Their goal is to hold quarterly networking events and education opportunities in Central Georgia, Eastern Tennessee, and Eastern Alabama.</p><h2>About TruckerCloud</h2><p>TruckerCloud is a pioneer in trucking solutions and supply chain management. A technology innovator, TruckerCloud’s cloud-based platform provides unprecedented, real-time freight visibility to shippers, carriers, brokers, and others in the trucking and transportation industries using a flexible ELD- and API-based visibility gateway. The patent-pending digital, permission-based carrier onboarding capability makes it simple to add new carriers and brokers. The system is already integrated with over 70 ELDs, which covers 80% of carriers in the market. TruckerCloud, formerly Tranzlogix, is headquartered in Atlanta, GA. For more information, please visit&nbsp;<a href="https://truckercloud.com/">www.truckercloud.com</a>.</p>